Quickstart
==========

.. figure:: screenshot/first_time.png
   :alt: 

If you successfully installed and loaded the Editor, you should have a
screen like the one above presented to you! Let's make a new project.

.. figure:: screenshot/fgmk_first_project.gif
   :alt: 

By clicking in the Project menu, you will need to provide a place where
you will keep your projects, and the name of the specific project (the
game) you are building.

Let's create an additional map, this will be the outside of this house.

|New| Click New in the **Map Explorer**. You can also use the menu and
select ``File -> New Map...``.

.. figure:: screenshot/new_menu.png
   :alt: 

From here, you can select the map size, change it's palette, or change
it's name. Let's change the name from ``NewFile`` to ``Outside``. After
changing to ``Outside``, click Ok.

We the Outside map open, select the tiles in the **Palette** on the
right and use the **pen tool** from the **Tools** dock to draw in the
map. We are going to draw the outside of the house.

|the pen tool| *the pen tool*

When you are done, just save.

Don't worry, if you forget, you will be presented with an option to save
if it's needed.

.. figure:: screenshot/the_outside.png
   :alt: 

Now, in the Map Explorer, double click in **ahouse**. If it asks if you
want to save, click yes.

The house map will be loaded again. Notice in the **Events** dock, there
is a field called **Event NÂº**. Click on the up arrow button until the
number ``2`` is selected, or just type ``2``. Now, with the **pen tool**
again, click in the house in the place that looks like an entrance.

.. figure:: screenshot/the_entrance.gif
   :alt: 

Now, in the **List of Events**, select the ``Event 002``, the List of
Actions will be enabled.

Deselect the **on click** checkbox and select the **on over** checkbox.
Click in Add Action, and select teleport.

We are going to select the Outside and mark a place in front of the
door. Click OK.

.. figure:: screenshot/how_to_teleport.png
   :alt: 

Ok, now we made a second map, and connected them using a teleport
action. Let's test. You can click **Project->Save and Run Project** or
just press **f5**.

Hopefully, the current map will be saved and a browser will open,
loading the map. Going out of the door should land you in front of the
sand house.

In the future there will be more tutorials, but for now, you are free to
explore the interface.

.. |New| image:: screenshot/map_explorer_new.png
   :width: 16px
.. |the pen tool| image:: screenshot/selected_pen_tool.png
   :width: 32px
